The Project Gutenberg EBook of Course of Study of the Oakland High School, by 
Oakland High School

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Course of Study of the Oakland High School

Author: Oakland High School

Release Date: October 13, 2020 [EBook #63450]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COURSE OF STUDY--OAKLAND HIGH SCHOOL ***




Produced by Richard Tonsing, Tim Lindell, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)









                            COURSE OF STUDY
                                 OF THE
                          OAKLAND HIGH SCHOOL


                          OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA

[Illustration]

                               JULY, 1912

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                 INDEX


                                                   PAGE
                 Algebra, Elementary                 34

                 Algebraic Theory                    35


                 Botany                              37


                 Chemistry                           39

                 Choral, Advanced                    49

                 Choral, Elementary                  49

                 Civics                              32

                 Composition                         22

                 Composition, Oral                   28

                 Course of Study in Outline     4, 5, 6


                 Designing                           51

                 Drama                               20

                 Drawing                             51

                 Drawing, Freehand                   51

                 Drawing, Freehand Advanced          51

                 Drawing, Geometric                  51

                 Drawing, Industrial Arts            51

                 Drawing, Mechanical                 51


                 Economics                           33

                 English                              7

                 English Literature                   7


                 French                              47


                 Geometry, Plane                     34

                 Geometry, Solid                     35

                 German                              44

                 Greek                               41

                 Gymnasium                           52


                 Harmony                             49

                 History                             31

                 History, Ancient                    31

                 History, English                    32

                 History, General                    31

                 History, Medieval and Modern        32

                 History, United States              32

                 Hygiene and Physical Education      52


                 Latin                               42

                 Literature, English                  7


                 Mathematics                         34

                 Music                               49

                 Music, Composition                  49

                 Music, History of                   49


                 Physical Education and Hygiene      52

                 Physical Geography                  37

                 Physics, Brief Course               39

                 Physics, Full Course                39

                 Physiology and Hygiene              38

                 Public Speaking                     19


                 Science                             37


                 Trigonometry                        35


                 Zoology                             38




                       Outline of Course of Study


 ═══════╤═══════════════════════════════╤═══════════════════════════════
        │           COURSE I.           │          COURSE II.
        │                               │
        │Preparatory to the University  │
        │of California in the Colleges  │
        │of Letters, Social Sciences,   │Preparatory to the University
        │Natural Sciences, Commerce,    │of California in the four-year
        │Agriculture, and the five-year │courses in the Colleges of
        │courses in the Colleges of     │Mechanics, Mining, Civil
        │Mechanics, Mining, Civil       │Engineering, and Chemistry.
        │Engineering and Chemistry, and │
        │the course of Architecture.    │
 ───────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────
 =FIRST │English                        │English
 YEAR=  │                               │
    „   │Algebra                        │Algebra
    „   │Foreign Lang. Ancient or Modern│Foreign Language
        │(see Note 1)                   │
    „   │Elective                       │Freehand Drawing
 ───────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────
 =SECOND│English                        │English
 YEAR=  │                               │
    „   │Geometry                       │Geometry
    „   │Foreign Lang. Ancient or Modern│Foreign Language
        │(see Note 1)                   │
    „   │Elective                       │Geometrical Drawing
 ───────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────
 =THIRD │Foreign Lang. Ancient or Modern│English or Foreign Language
 YEAR=  │(see Note 1)                   │
    „   │Elective                       │Chemistry
    „   │Elective                       │Mathematics
    „   │Science                        │Elective
        │(Any 3rd or 4th year Science if│
    „   │preferred, Science may be taken│
        │in the 4th instead of the 3rd  │
        │year.)                         │
    „   │Foreign Lang. Ancient or Modern│
        │(see Note 1)                   │
 ───────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────
 =FOURTH│U. S. History and Civics       │English or Foreign Language
 YEAR=  │                               │
    „   │Elective                       │U. S. History and Civics
    „   │Elective                       │Physics
        │(Science must be taken in this │
    „   │year, if not already taken in  │Mathematics
        │the third year.)               │
 ───────┴───────────────────────────────┴───────────────────────────────

 ═══════╤═══════════════════════════════╤═══════════════════════════════
        │          COURSE III.          │           ELECTIVES
        │                               │
        │General Course, not preparatory│
        │to the University. At least    │
        │three years’ work in each of   │Starred subjects are not
        │three of the following groups  │included in the General List of
        │of subjects is required for    │Preparatory subjects for
        │graduation from the general    │admission to the University of
        │course: English, History,      │California.
        │Mathematics, Foreign Languages,│
        │Science, Music and Drawing.    │
 ───────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────
 =FIRST │English                        │*Choral I
 YEAR=  │                               │
    „   │Elective (See Note 3)          │Algebra
    „   │Elective                       │General History
    „   │Elective                       │Ancient History
    „   │                               │Freehand Drawing
    „   │                               │German I
    „   │                               │French I
    „   │                               │Latin I
    „   │                               │General Science
 ───────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────
 =SECOND│English                        │Choral II
 YEAR=  │                               │
    „   │Elective                       │Botany
    „   │Elective                       │Plane Geometry
    „   │Elective                       │Med. and Mod. History
    „   │                               │Geometrical Drawing or
        │                               │*Designing
    „   │                               │German II
    „   │                               │French II
    „   │                               │Latin II
    „   │                               │Greek I August
 ───────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────
 =THIRD │English (see Note 2)           │Elements of Harmony
 YEAR=  │                               │
    „   │Elective                       │*Economics
    „   │Elective                       │*Dramatics
    „   │Elective                       │Chemistry
    „   │                               │English History
    „   │                               │*Applied Designing
    „   │                               │*Advanced Freehand Drawing
    „   │                               │Solid Geometry ½
    „   │                               │Trigonometry ½
    „   │                               │English III
    „   │                               │German I or III
    „   │                               │French I
    „   │                               │Latin I or III
    „   │                               │Greek I or II August
    „   │                               │*History of Art
    „   │                               │Zoology
    „   │                               │*Argumentation
    „   │                               │Advanced Algebra ½
    „   │                               │*Public Speaking
 ───────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────
 =FOURTH│U. S. History and Government   │History of Music
 YEAR=  │                               │
    „   │Elective                       │*Economics
    „   │Elective                       │Physiology and Hygiene
    „   │Elective                       │Physics
    „   │                               │Advanced Algebra ½
    „   │                               │*Argumentation
    „   │                               │English IV
    „   │                               │German II or IV
    „   │                               │French II or IV
    „   │                               │Latin II or IV
    „   │                               │Greek II or III August
    „   │                               │*Astronomy ½
    „   │                               │Solid Geometry ½
    „   │                               │Trigonometry ½
 ───────┴───────────────────────────────┴───────────────────────────────

In addition to the subjects on preceding pages, a certain amount of
Physical Culture will be required of all students. Hygiene is prescribed
for all girls in the second year.

Pupils preparing to enter one of the California State Normal Schools are
advised to register for Course I or Course II.

Note 1. The University of California will accept either Ancient or
Modern Languages or both for admission. But since the University
requires Latin for graduation from the Colleges of Letters and Social
Sciences, and does not offer instruction in the first two years of high
school Latin, students preparing to enter these Colleges must take at
least two years of Latin. Latin is not required for admission to or
graduation from other colleges.

Note 2. In the General Course, Third Year English will be required of
all students who do not take at least two years of Foreign Language.

Note 3. One year of Science is required for graduation from the General
Course. It may be taken in any year of the course.

Note 4. In electing Sciences and Music, students may choose electives
from the preceding or succeeding year as well as from electives for the
year in which the student is registered. General Science, if taken, must
precede any other science. One year science will be required for
graduation from any four-year course.

Note 5. A student will not be allowed to take more than the equivalent
of four recitations per day unless by special agreement between the
principal and the student’s parents.

Note 6. Except as provided in Note 7, sixteen credits, each requiring at
least two forty-five-minute periods per day for recitations and
preparation for one year will be required for graduation.

Note 7. One of the sixteen credits required under Note 6 will be granted
for work in literary, athletic or other student activities (including
debating, and choral and orchestral music) in student societies
operating under the supervision of the principal or some faculty member
designated by him. This credit shall be granted under rules established
by the principal.

Note 8. No class shall be organized or maintained in the first or second
year of any high school unless at the beginning of the year there shall
be enrolled in the class not less than twenty-five students, provided
that in the second year a course, which is a continuance of a first year
course, may be maintained if not less than twenty students are enrolled
therein.

Note 9. No class shall be organized or maintained in the third or fourth
year of any high school unless at the beginning of the year there shall
be enrolled in the class not less than fifteen students, provided that
no class shall be suspended unless the same subject is being given in
some other high school in this city.

Note 10. When any course is given in more than one high school, there
shall be uniformity in text-books, and in the content of the course of
study pursued.




                            COURSE OF STUDY


                                ENGLISH.


                           LITERATURE COURSE.

=Aims=

1. To arouse an interest in the best that has been written by making
students enjoy their English work.

2. By means of this interest in the best, to help develop right ideals
of thought and action.

3. To train in intelligent, appreciative reading; viz., to be able to
get the writer’s thought and to acquire some standards of judgment as to
what constitutes true literature.

=Divisions.=

1. Literature studied in class.

2. Collateral reading done in connection with the literature studied and
under the general direction of the teacher.

3. Reading selected at will from a general list, composed not
necessarily of masterpieces, but of wholesome books interesting to young
people, the purpose being to encourage reading and to furnish
suggestions as to what is worth while.


                              NINTH YEAR.

First Term.

=Literature Studied.=

    The Iliad, Books 1, 6, 22 and 24. Bryant’s Translation.
    The Odyssey. Complete. Palmer’s Translation.
    Antigone.

=Collateral Reading.= Selections from the following:

    The Iliad (At least four more books.) Homer.
    Wonder Book. Hawthorne.
    Tanglewood Tales. Hawthorne.
    Greek Heroes. Kingsley.
    Earthly Paradise. Morris.
    The Æneid. Virgil.
    Masque of Pandora. Longfellow.
    Iphigenia in Aulis. Euripides.
    Iphigenia in Tauris. Euripides.
    Alcestis. Euripides.
    Ulysses. Stephen Phillips.
    Balaustion’s Adventure. Browning.
    Pheidippides. Browning.
    Rhoecus. Lowell.
    Out of the Northland. Child.
    Old Testament Stories.
    The Song of Roland.
    The Niebelungenlied.
    Beowulf. Child.

=Method.=

1. Introduction to Greek life and thought, especially of religion.
(Talks by the teacher and reports by students on topics assigned.)

2. Reading of the most important stories of the gods and older heroes.
(Teach in connection with 1 and 2, the use of reference books.)

3. Reading of literature assigned, (1) for interest in story; (2) in
characters; (3) in customs of the times; (4) in heroic ideals; (5) for
fine lines. Try to recreate the Homeric life and to bring out the
elements of permanence.

4. Enough attention to allusions and meanings of words to insure
intelligent reading, but no more.

5. Study the “Antigone” broadly for story and characters, and to arouse
an interest in the difference between the Greek and modern play, but
avoid technicalities here. Develop the ability to find fine lines.

6. Occasional reports, oral and written, on allied subjects; such as,
Greek temples, sacrifices, the priesthood, famous festivals, or on
collateral reading.


                              NINTH YEAR.

Second Term.

=Literature Studied.=

1. Horatius, Macaulay’s Lays. Old English Ballads. Sohrab and Rustum,
Matthew Arnold, or Lady of the Lake, Scott.

2. Prose Literature for Secondary Schools. Ashmun.

3. One of the following novels:

    Treasure Island. Stevenson.
    Kidnapped. Stevenson.
    Ivanhoe. Scott.
    Quentin Durward. Scott
    The Talisman. Scott.

=Collateral Reading.=

(Selected)

    Lady of the Lake. Scott.
    Lay of the Last Minstrel. Scott.
    Marmion. Scott.
    Lays of Ancient Rome. Macaulay.
    The Boys’ King Arthur. Lanier.
    Tales of a Grandfather. Scott.
    Kenilworth. Scott.
    Woodstock. Scott.
    Rob Roy. Scott.
    David Copperfield. Dickens.
    Old Curiosity Shop. Dickens.

=Method.=

First Group.

1. Read for interest in story and character. Never lose sight of this.

2. Work to develop the pictorial imagination. The method of the drama
will help; i. e., set the scene, describe accurately the actors, dress
them appropriately, imagine facial expression, tone of voice, gesture
and action.

3. Stimulate discussion on characters and motives actuating them.

4. Occasional close work on fine descriptive passages. Image them
accurately. Bring out by this effort the obvious differences between
poetic and prose diction, but no special study of this here.

5. Connect with the preceding term’s work when possible, by comparison
of the heroic ideals with those of the Greeks.

Second Group.

Follow the general trend of the suggestions given in the text. The aim
is to arouse an interest in prose devoid of strong story element.

Third Group.

Follow the general directions for the study of the first group. Give
simple training in the development of a plot, but keep this subordinate
to interest in the story and characters.


                              TENTH YEAR.

Second Term.

=Special Aim of the Term.=

To teach to read poetry with enjoyment, and to show that poetical
expression is an addition to beautiful thought.

=Literature Studied.=

First Half Term.

    The Vision of Sir Launfal. Lowell.
    The Forsaken Merman. Arnold, or
    King Robert of Sicily. Longfellow.
    The Ancient Mariner. Coleridge.

Second Half Term.

    The Merchant of Venice. Shakespeare.
    Sesame and Lilies (King’s Treasuries). Ruskin.

=Collateral Reading.=

Any narrative and descriptive verse rich in ethical and poetical beauty;
such as,

    Enoch Arden. Tennyson.
    Snow Bound. Whittier.
    The Eve of St. Agnes. Keats.
    The Golden Legend. Longfellow.
    Tales of a Wayside Inn. Longfellow.
    Drifting. Buchanan Read.
    The Closing Scene. Buchanan Read.
    Nature Lyrics. Lowell.
    Twelfth Night. Shakespeare.
    Midsummer Night’s Dream. Shakespeare.
    The Tempest. Shakespeare.
    As You Like It. Shakespeare.
    The Alhambra. Irving.
    Travels with a Donkey. Stevenson.
    An Inland Voyage. Stevenson.
    South Sea Idyls. Stoddard.
    Lorna Doone. Blackmore.

=Method.=

1. Simple presentation of the differences between poetry and prose;

        (1) in purpose,

        (2) in thought (subject),

        (3) in choice and use of words,

        (4) in sound.

2. Short drill on selected figures, principally of imagination. Choose
only those rich in meaning and within the range of the experience of the
class. Work to bring out the gain from the figure.

3. Present the music side of poetry—rhythm, meter, rhyme (including
alliteration), and give a drill on various selections to train the ear.

4. “Vision of Sir Launfal.” Study for beauty of thought, ethical content
and its application to modern life, and beauty of pictures and figures.
Give much attention to the visualizing power. Try to show that the
poetic language and form are a gain.

5. Study of other narratives on same general plan. If time permit, study
a few lyrics rich in content and poetic beauty, such as Tennyson’s
“Lotus Eaters,” or Shelley’s “Skylark;” (1) for thought; (2) for beauty
of word usage; (3) for melody.

6. “Merchant of Venice.” Study (1) for what happens—the sequence of
events and their relation to each other; (2) for a knowledge of the
characters and the motives actuating them; (3) for fine lines; (4) for
strongest and most beautiful scenes; (5) for beauty of language, noting
scenes richest in poetic expression and its appropriateness; (6) for
structure; i.e., the major and minor stories and their relation to each
other. Throughout the whole emphasize the fact that the play is a
picture of human life; make the characters and the scenes real.

7. “Sesame and Lilies.” Study to stimulate thought and to arouse a
further interest in fine literature. Train in the way to read prose; i.
e., the finding of the main thought (topic sentence), and tracing its
growth in the paragraph; also the necessity for knowing the real
significance of the words used.


                              TENTH YEAR.

Second Term.

=Literature Studied.=

First Half Term.

    Continuation of the study of the drama Julius Caesar.

Second Half Term.

Training in careful, intelligent reading of prose, expository and
argumentative.

    Public Duty of Educated Men. Curtis.
    International Arbitration. Schurz.
    Salt. Van Dyke.
        (From Shurter’s Masterpiece of Modern Oratory).

    First Bunker Hill Oration. Webster.

=Collateral Reading.=

    Richard II. and III. Shakespeare.
    Henry V. Shakespeare.
    Coriolanus. Shakespeare.
    Henry IV. Shakespeare.
    The Jew of Malta. Marlowe.
    Richelieu. Bulwer-Lytton.
    The Plymouth Oration. Webster.
    The Second Bunker Hill Oration. Webster.
    The Eulogy on Adams and Jefferson. Webster.
    (Other speeches from Shurter’s Masterpieces).

=Method.=

1. “Julius Caesar.” Same general treatment as with “Merchant of Venice,”
with more emphasis on study of plot—the conflicting interests, the
threads of action, character groups, character contrast, the division in
the plot, the important moments—but never emphasize technique at the
expense of study of the play as a picture of life. Much memorizing of
fine lines.

2. Prose. (1) Find main thought of each paragraph (topic sentence) and
trace its growth, noting the method of development when clear; (2) group
related paragraphs and note relation of different groups to each other;
(3) note introductory, transitional, summarizing and concluding
paragraphs; (4) show further the necessity for a clear, definite content
for each word and a knowledge of references. Owing to the difficulty of
this work, it is well at first for teachers to study with the class, in
order to arouse interest in the thought and prevent discouragement.
Power to work independently will soon grow.


                             ELEVENTH YEAR.

First Term.

=Literature Studied.=

1. Continuation of work of the tenth year with poetry.

    The Idylls of the King. Tennyson.
        The Coming of Arthur.
        Gareth and Lynette.
        The Holy Grail.
        The Passing of Arthur.

2. Study of a novel.

    Silas Marner. George Eliot, or
    The Tale of Two Cities. Dickens.

3. Study of the Essay.

    Autobiography and Lay Sermons. Huxley, or
    Warren Hastings. Macaulay.

=Collateral Reading.=

    The Idylls of the King (Enid, Elaine, and Guinievere).
    The Princess. Tennyson.
    The Lady of Shalott. Tennyson.
    Sir Galahad. Tennyson.
    Merlin and the Gleam. Tennyson.
    The Light of Asia. Edwin Arnold.
    Balder Dead. Matthew Arnold.
    Lord Clive. Macaulay.
    Life of Johnson. Macaulay.
    The Americanism of Washington. Van Dyke.
    Latter Day Saints and Sinners. Ross.
    The Life of Lincoln. Schurz.
    Fisherman’s Luck. Van Dyke.
    Adventures in Friendship. Grayson.
    Adventures in Contentment. Grayson.
    Out of the East. Lafcadio Hearn.
    My Summer in a Garden. Warner.
    Reveries of a Bachelor. Mitchell.
    Dream Children. Mitchell.

=Method.=

1. Idylls of the King. Study for (1) nobility of thought and ideals of
life; (2) beauty of pictures; (3) imagery and word usage; (4) blank
verse and noticeable sound effects. Make special effort as in the first
half of the tenth year, to develop the imagination and an appreciation
of the gain from beautiful expression.

2. The novel. (1) Train in open-eyed reading; the story and the
characters should be known thoroughly. (2) Aim to enlarge the experience
by acquaintance with new motives and actions. (3) Seek for the
underlying ideas in the story and for the working out of great laws. (4)
Study of structure as in the drama.

3. The Essay. Continue paragraph work of the tenth year, second half,
with new emphasis on kinds of paragraph development. Distinguish between
narrative, descriptive, and expository paragraphs, and the methods of
development in each. Begin the study of prose style; i.e., rhetorical
sentences and their value: studiously long and short sentences, periodic
sentences, antithesis and climax; also study vocabulary, especially, in
Macaulay, the use of concrete terms and their value. Select striking
paragraphs for close work on style, and study to discover method.


                             ELEVENTH YEAR.

Second Term.

=Literature Studied.=

American Literature.

1. Poetry. Class work on selected poems of Bryant, Poe, Longfellow,
Emerson, Whittier, Holmes, Lowell, Walt Whitman.

2. The Novel.

    House of Seven Gables. Hawthorne, or
    Marble Faun. Hawthorne, or
    Rise of Silas Lapham. Howells.

3. The Short Story. Hawthorne and Poe.

4. The Essay. One of the following:

    Fortune of the Republic. Emerson.
    The American Scholar. Emerson.
    Compensation. Emerson.
    Democracy. Lowell.

=Collateral Reading.=

    Franklin. Autobiography.
    Sketch Book. Irving.
    The Alhambra. Irving.
    Knickerbocker History of New York. Irving.
    Last of the Mohicans, or any other novel. Cooper.
    Lesser poets of the Creative Period:
        Aldrich.
        Bayard Taylor.
        Buchanan Read.
        Alice and Phoebe Cary.
        Holland.

    Later Poets:
        Lanier.
        Bret Harte.
        Edward Rowland Sill.
        Helen Hunt.
        Eugene Fields.
        James Whitcomb Riley.
        Richard Watson Gilder.
        Edwin Markham.

    The Man Without a Country. Edward Everett Hale.
    The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table. Holmes.
    Walden. Thoreau.

=Method.=

The course is to be taught historically, by means of lectures, class
study of the most important authors, and much collateral reading. The
purpose is to arouse an interest and pride in America’s literary
product, therefore the work is taught more broadly than in preceding
terms. Preface the course with a brief consideration of what is meant by
the term literature, and with a review of simple poetics as a basis for
the future study of poetry.

1. Poetry. Select for study poems not usually read in the grammar
school, unless the well known have a content of growing interest;
examples: Longfellow’s Keramos, Amalfi, Morituri Salutamis; Lowell’s
Commemoration Ode; Emerson’s Each and All.

2. The novel. Same plan as in preceding term.

3. The short story. Develop (1) the characteristics of a successful
short story; (2) the differences between this and a novel; (3) the
various types of short story; (4) some definite standards of judgment
for future use.

4. The essay. Read mainly to stimulate thought on life.

5. Make the collateral reading an important part of this course. Have
outside reading done on each author studied and on others for whom there
is not time for class work. Help toward intelligent, appreciative
reading by assigning special topics on the literature read, and give
occasional recitation periods to oral reports.

6. Have occasional oral readings from authors not studied in class,
especially the best of the later poets. This may be done frequently in
five-minute exercises at the beginning of the recitations.

7. Put early into the hands of the students a classified list of the
best American authors. Stimulate in every possible way the desire to
read.


                             TWELFTH YEAR.

=General Purpose for the Year.=

(1) To unify the work of the preceding terms. (2) To give a rapid survey
of the whole field of English Literature. (3) To study selected
masterpieces characteristic of the various periods. (4) To learn the
characteristics of the chief literary types. (5) To read as broadly as
possible in each period. Collateral reading here runs parallel with
class work.

First term.

=Literature Studied.=

    History of English Literature to 18th Century.
    Prologue to the Canterbury Tales. Chaucer.
    Review of the Old English Ballads.
    Macbeth. Shakespeare.
    L’Allegro and Il Penseroso. Milton.
    Comus. Milton, or
    Paradise Lost, Books 1 and 2. Milton.
    Lycidas. Milton.
    Sonnet on His Blindness. Milton.
    Alexander’s Feast. Dryden.

=Collateral Reading.=

    The epic—Beowulf (at least two-thirds).
    The tale—One of Chaucer’s, preferably the Knight’s Tale.
    The drama—King Lear. Shakespeare, or
        Hamlet. Shakespeare, or
        Othello. Shakespeare, or
        The Jew of Malta. Marlowe, or
        Doctor Faustus. Marlowe.

    The song—Palgrave’s Golden Treasury. Books 1 and 2.
    The essay—Essays selected. Bacon.
    The allegory—Pilgrim’s Progress (Part I). Bunyan.
    The elegy—Elegy in a Country Churchyard. Gray.
        Adonais. Shelley.
        Thrysis. Matthew Arnold.
        In Memoriam. Tennyson.
        Thanatopsis. Bryant.

=Method.=

In general study broadly to stimulate a desire for further acquaintance
with literature, but whenever made possible by the work in hand, review
and sum up principles emphasized throughout preceding terms.

=Chaucer.= Read (1) for a picture of the times; (2) to discover his
broad humanity; (3) for his humor and satire; (4) for his literary
method. Do not attempt to teach pronunciation or grammar, but insist on
smooth, intelligent translation.

=The Ballads.= Read to find the characteristics of ballad literature.
Compare with the literary ballad; such as, The Ancient Mariner, Scott’s
Rosabelle, or Rossetti’s White Ship.

=Macbeth.= Read principally for great ethical lessons. Emphasize
character development. Have only so much close study as is necessary for
the understanding of the action and characters. Teach as dramatically as
possible; imagine stage setting, tone of voice, facial and bodily
expression, action—in order to enter into the play. Select passages
noticeable for beauty or power of expression and test appropriateness.

=Paradise Lost.= Study as dramatically as possible. Do no line-by-line
study. Get the story, the character of Satan with its mixture of good
and evil, the fine pictures and imagery. Mark fine thoughts, also
examples of loftiness and sublimity, of color and splendor, and of
varying melody.

=Comus.= Study as an example of the masque, keeping the dramatic element
prominent. Set the scenes, imagine stage accessories suggested by the
lines; such as, costumes, lights, tableaux, music. Show differences
between this and the fully developed drama. Do the same kind of work as
in “Paradise Lost” with fine thoughts and beautiful expressions. Show
the lyric element here and its appropriateness.

=Lycidas.= Preface with the reading of examples of the classic pastoral
elegy, in order to familiarize students with the pastoral style and so
remove some of the difficulties. (See Baldwin’s “Famous Elegies” for
translations of Theocritus, Bion, and Moschus). This poem has real
difficulties for young students, therefore the teacher must give wise
assistance in mastering it, or it will fail to make an appeal. Note the
beautiful variation of melody. Show the effect of alliterative and
assonantal rhyme and the grouping and alternation of consonant and vowel
sounds, with resulting changes in music. At the close of the study of
the poem, make a comparative study of it and Gray’s Elegy to show the
difference between the personal and the general elegy.

=Alexander’s Feast.= Study (1) as an imitation of the heroic ode; (2) as
an example of effective wedding of sound and sense.

Second Term.

=Literature Studied.=

    History of English Literature from 18th century to present.
    Sir Roger de Coverley Papers. Addison & Steel.
    The Deserted Village. Goldsmith.
    The Vicar of Wakefield. Goldsmith.
    Elegy in a Country Churchyard. Gray.
    Lyrics. Burns, Wordsworth, Shelley, Keats, and Byron.
    Essays of Elia. Lamb.
    Joan of Arc. De Quincey, or
    Essay on Burns. Carlyle.
    Selected Poems. Tennyson, Arnold, Browning.

=Collateral Reading.=

    She Stoops to Conquer. Goldsmith.
    The Rape of the Lock. Pope.
    Essay on Man (Selections). Pope.
    Essay on Johnson. Macaulay, or
    Essay on Addison. Macaulay.
    The Newcomes. Thackeray.
    Henry Esmond. Thackeray.
    One novel. Dickens.
    One novel other than “Silas Marner.” Geo. Eliot.
    Essay on Burns. Carlyle, or
    Heroes and Hero Worship (Selections). Carlyle, or
    Essay on Wordsworth. Matthew Arnold.

=Method.=

In general, treat the literature studied broadly, to leave in the mind
by the end of the term a liking for it and a desire for more. Do only
enough minute study to insure intelligent, appreciative reading and to
prevent carelessness.

=Sir Roger de Coverley Papers.= Preface with topical work on the
character of the 18th century. (See “Social Life in the Reign of Queen
Anne” by Ashton). Read to the class the “Rape of the Lock” as a picture
of the times. Study the De Coverley Papers (1) as a picture of the
times; (2) for the character of Sir Roger and reasons for its life; (3)
for method of character delineation; (4) for method of teaching; (5) for
examples of humor and satire; (6) for observations of human nature.
Select some expository paper for close study of structure: introduction
and conclusion, paragraph development, coherence.

=Gray, Goldsmith, Burns.= Study to discover characteristic features of
the “Romantic Revival,” and survivals of 18th century style. Try to show
by Burns’ lyrics and by a return to 16th century lyrics the essential
characteristics of the song.

=The Vicar of Wakefield.= Rapid study of humorous situations,
lovableness of the characters, kindliness and gentleness of the author,
elements of permanence. Comparison with some later novel.

=Shelley, Keats, Byron.= Closer attention to the beauties of poetic
expression and its relation to the thought: pictures, figures, color and
sound words, meter, rhyme effects.

Review by the end of the term the main periods of English Literature,
their distinguishing characteristics, and the great names of each, also
the main literary types.


                            PUBLIC SPEAKING.

=Prerequisite.=

Two years of English. May be substituted for either term of the 11th
year or taken in addition to the regular course.

=Texts.=

    Extempore Speaking. Shurter.
    Manual of Argumentation. Laycock and Spofford.
    Manual of Parliamentary Law. Gregg.

=Method.=

First Half Term.

1. Training in simple parliamentary law.

2. Practice in reading and reciting speeches of others.

3. Original speeches, prepared and extempore, such as, speeches of
introduction, nomination, presentation, acceptance, eulogy, farewell,
toasts.

4. Reading of oratorical masterpieces, especially modern ones, and class
discussion as to strength and weakness, elements of success and failure.

5. An original oration.

=Method.=

Second Half Term.

   1. Study of the theory of argument.

   2. Conciliation with the Colonies. Burke.

      Speech on Reform Bill. Macaulay.

      Reply to Hayne. Webster.

      Study Burke for structure, logical arrangement, force of
      reasoning, different kinds of arguments. Study Macaulay and
      Webster as different types of oratory.

   3. Making of briefs.

   4. Practice in argument and debate.


                          STUDY OF THE DRAMA.

=Time.=

One-half year.

=Credit.=

One-half unit.

=Prerequisite.=

Two years of English.

May be substituted for either of 11th year English courses, or taken
with either term of the regular 11th or 12th year work.

=Aim.=

1. To awaken in the student a taste for that which is essentially good
in the drama, both as to content and form.

2. To acquaint the student with so much of the history and technique of
the drama as is necessary for intelligent study.

=Contents of Course.=

Plays studied.

   1. Antigone. Sophocles, or

      Alcestis. Euripides.

   2. Everyman.

   3. Hamlet. Shakespeare.

      Twelfth Night. Shakespeare, or some other Shakespearean tragedy or
      comedy.

   4. She Stoops to Conquer. Goldsmith, or

      The School for Scandal. Sheridan.

   5. The Doll’s House. Ibsen.

   6. Trelawney of the Wells. Pinero, or

      Sweet Lavender. Pinero, or

      The Cabinet Minister. Pinero.

   7. The Land of the Heart’s Desire. Yeats.

   8. The Only Way. (Dramatization of Dickens’ Tale of Two Cities), or

      Oliver Twist.

=Collateral Reading.=

Selected plays from the following:

    Agamemnon. Æschylus.
    Alcestis. Euripides.
    The Frogs. Aristophanes.
    The Captives. Plautus.

Early English Plays:

        Sacrifice of Isaac.
        Noah’s Flood.
        Secunda Pastorum.

    The Jew of Malta. Marlowe.
    Knights of the Burning Pestle. Beaumont & Fletcher.
    Alexander and Campaspe. Lyly.
    Shoemaker’s Holiday. Dekker.
    As You Like It. Shakespeare.
    Midsummer Night’s Dream. Shakespeare.
    The Tempest. Shakespeare.
    Henry V. Shakespeare.
    School for Scandal. Sheridan.
    The Rivals. Sheridan.
    The Good Natured Man. Goldsmith.
    Lady of Lyons. Lytton.
    Becket. Tennyson.
    Blot in the Scutcheon. Browning.
    Caste. Robertson, or
    School. Robertson (for type of new realistic school).
    London Assurance. Boucicault (for reversion to 18th century comedy
    of manners).
    His House in Order. Pinero.
    The Magistrate. Pinero.
    Judah. Jones.
    Doll’s House. Ibsen.
    Pillars of Society. Ibsen.
    An Enemy to the People. Ibsen.
    Ulysses. Stephen Phillips.
    The Blue Bird. Maeterlinck.
    The Piper. Peabody.
    The Servant in the House. Kennedy.
    Strife. Galsworthy.
    Riders to the Sea. Synge.

=Outline of Class Work.=

1. Origin and development of drama among the Greeks; study of a play
from the period of their highest literary achievement.

2. Brief consideration of the forerunners of the modern English drama;
(1) miracle plays, (2) moralities, (3) early English farces, (4)
pre-Shakespearean drama. Examples of types (2) and (4) studied.

3. Shakespearean Drama: study of one each of the comedy and tragedy
(those not studied in the regular English courses).

4. Brief review of the history of the drama from the beginning of the
17th to the end of the 18th century. Study of one of the best types of
18th century comedy.

5. Important phases of 19th century drama considered. Study of a
transition type.

6. The contemporary drama; its broad range as to both matter and manner
opening great possibilities—of achievement for the dramatist, of
education for the audience.

=Method.=

In accordance with the aims as stated, the technical side of the work
will, for the most part, be presented by the teacher in the form of
concise notes, in order to leave as much time as possible for direct,
appreciative study of plays.

The collateral reading is to be used as illustrative material and for
comparison.

Scenes will be studied and presented by students in the classroom, with
occasional public (school) presentations. Students realize dramatic
values by this means.

Toward the end of the term, students will be encouraged to attempt the
construction of original plays or dramatization of parts of novels and
stories.


                          WRITTEN COMPOSITION.

The work in composition is so planned as to draw help from the
literature course, but is not based upon it. One period a week in all
classes except Public Speaking and Dramatics is devoted to the work.

=General Suggestions.=

1. Work from the whole to the parts; that is, begin with the whole
composition, and work to the paragraph and sentence.

2. While emphasizing in different terms some one particular kind of
composition, do not limit the work wholly to that form.

3. Make the course cumulative; that is, refer to and emphasize, wherever
possible, principles learned in former terms.

4. In all work, oral and written, whether formal compositions,
examinations or recitations, develop a feeling for organization and
arrangement of thoughts.

5. Encourage expression of the student’s interest, but try to guide and
broaden it. Seek to develop the power to observe accurately; also to
awaken the imagination.

6. Try constantly to enlarge the student’s vocabulary.

7. Insist on correct form, neatness and promptitude. Part of the work of
High School English is to form correct habits.

8. Make all criticisms constructive. Have as much personal conference as
possible.


                              NINTH YEAR.

First Term.

=Special Work.=

1. Composition, chiefly narrative, but no special emphasis on narrative
as a form of discourse.

2. Punctuation.

3. Letter-writing.

4. Review of grammar.

=Material.=

Reproductions of parts of literature read, reports on outside reading,
imaginative treatment of subjects suggested by the literature lesson,
personal experiences. The following will suggest possible subjects: New
nature myths, new hero stories, additional adventures for Ulysses,
stories illustrating his various traits of character, new endings to old
stories, possible settings for Homeric stories, dialogues between
Homeric characters, descriptions of scenes from the Iliad from the point
of view of an eye-witness, etc.

=Method.=

1. Teach from the beginning correct form and habits of neatness and
care. While emphasizing these, have most of the work reproductive, in
order not to kill spontaneity.

2. Emphasize letter-writing toward the end of the term when the interest
has been aroused in other forms of writing. Select for practice only
such letters as young people would be apt to write.

3. Begin systematic training in punctuation early, and continue with the
composition work throughout the term. Teach the use of the comma,
quotation marks, especially in dialogue, and the terminal marks. Teach
by the logical rather than by the formal method; that is, lead to the
examination of the thought in sentences and to punctuation in accordance
with it.

4. In review of grammar, use Hitchcock’s “Enlarged Practice Book.”
Select chapters treating of the general structure of a sentence, the
nature, kinds, and uses of phrases and clauses; also the exercise on
common errors of speech. Adapt this work to the special needs of each
class. One day a week will be taken for drill if necessary, or it may be
omitted, if classes are well prepared.

Second Term.

Begin the study of separate forms of discourse. Teach what rhetoric is,
and the reasons for studying it.

=Special Work.=

1. Narration, with its involved problem of structure.

2. Continued drill on punctuation.

3. Continued drill in grammar if needed.

=Method.=

1. Begin with narration. Teach during the term the essentials of a
successful narrative.

         a. Action (something happening).

         b. Point (an idea, a climax).

         c. Unity (it must hang together).

         d. Style (it must be interesting and entertaining).

Emphasize this kind of work while teaching narrative poetry and prose
(the novel), but do not draw subjects from the literature lesson. From
this term on, composition work should be original. (See Sampson &
Holland’s Composition and Rhetoric for excellent suggestions on teaching
narration).

2. While studying Ashmun’s “Prose Literature for Secondary Schools,”
follow the general line of composition work there suggested.

3. Punctuation. Teach the use of the semicolon, colon, dash, and
exclamation point, and continue drill of preceding term.

4. Simple teaching of paragraph structure; that is, the grouping of
similar thoughts together by their relation to a central idea or topic.

5. Toward the end of the term a brief review of letter-writing.


                              TENTH YEAR.

First Term.

=Special Work.=

1. Description, with involved problem of diction.

2. Review of letter-writing.

=Method.=

1. Begin with comparative work in two kinds of description: scientific
and literary; that for information and that for enjoyment. Develop this
by the primary essentials of descriptive writing:

         a. Point of view.

         b. Selection of details.

         c. Order and grouping.

         d. Objective and subjective character.

         e. Appropriate diction.

2. Notice of differences will involve a study of diction: synonyms,
especially adjectives; figures of speech (simile, metaphor, and
personification); words of color, sound, motion, shape, concrete terms.

3. Use as illustrative material examples from scientific writing,
text-books, books of travel, novels, verse. Whenever possible, make the
literature lessons serve as models, but do not draw from them for
subjects. Have all composition original.

4. Later in the term return to narration, and combine with it
description of scenery and character.

5. Throw occasional compositions into the form of the friendly letter,
using some of the best modern letter writers, such as Stevenson, as
models.


                              TENTH YEAR.

Second Term.

=Special Work.=

1. Exposition, with involved problem of clearness and order.

2. Word-work, with the purpose of enlarging the vocabulary and
developing accuracy in the use of words.

3. Review of letter-writing.

=Method.=

1. Connect with the preceding term’s work by showing that exposition is
description which explains; which shows the general and the common
rather than the particular and the individual; which omits the personal.

2. Develop the following special points:

      Arrangement of material.

        A. Gathering of ideas, either one’s own or those from standard
           authorities. If the latter, give directions on note-taking.

        B. Selection of material, according to scale of treatment.

        C. Making of outline.

        a. Key sentence or announcement of subject.

        b. Grouping into leading and subordinate points.

        c. Conclusion, with summary where advisable.

      Development of material (Paragraph making).

      Do no formal work with the paragraph except to teach the
      importance of the topic sentence as a means toward unity and
      therefore toward clearness. Insist on a clear topic sentence for
      each paragraph. Permit any means of development that naturally
      suggests itself. Encourage the attempt not only to begin
      paragraphs well, but to end them well.

3. Word-work. Give regular exercises once a week for the first half term
on work tending to develop an interest in words and accuracy in their
use; such as, exercises in defining, in synonyms (select only such as
are apt to be misused), on words with interesting history. In defining
insist on correct form and clear distinctions. Vary this work and select
with care, so that it will be vital. It is valueless if formal and
perfunctory.

4. Review briefly business letters, and such social forms (invitations,
acceptances, regrets), as high school students will be apt to need.


                             ELEVENTH YEAR.

First Term.

The work of the Eleventh year is cumulative, continuing practice in
narration, description, and exposition, with new emphasis on style.

=Method.=

1. While studying the “Idylls of the King” and “Silas Marner,” review
narration and description. Insist on the observance of principles
learned in earlier terms, but try to arouse an interest in style as a
means of increasing effectiveness. Emphasize the difference between
poetic and prose style, and the limitations of each. Note the use of
figurative language in modern prose style. Try to develop the power of
suggestiveness. Study the descriptions of place and character in “Silas
Marner” from this point of view, and try to interest the class in
attempts at imitation.

2. While studying the essay, review exposition. Insist on attention to
points learned in the Tenth Year. Carry on paragraph development, with
more emphasis on various kinds of paragraphs; as, transitional,
summarizing, introductory, and concluding.

3. Give some attention to prose style, especially if Macaulay is being
studied. Show the value of various rhetorical forms; such as the
balanced sentence, loose and periodic sentences, studiously short
sentences, climax, rhetorical questions, also the value of concrete
terms. Try to interest students in imitating various styles. Frequent
short papers, in each of which some definite point is being worked for,
will bring better results both in interest and achievement than less
frequent long ones.

Second Term.

=Special Work.=

Continued review of narration, description, and exposition, with
emphasis on style.

=Method.=

1. Make the review of the first two forms lead up to the writing of a
brief short story. Teach this at the same time the short story and novel
are being studied. Begin with writing of various settings,
introductions, descriptions of person and character, incidents
introduced for various purposes, bits of dialogue, and lead up to the
complete story.

2. While reviewing exposition, draw subjects from questions of present
interest, either local or general, and occasionally from literature
work. Reports on collateral reading may be used to teach the writing of
a simple, interesting book review, that would lead others to read.
Choose subjects here that will not lead to copying other peoples’ ideas.
Reject empty, glittering generalities.

3. Have at least one longer piece of exposition this term than has been
previously written, preferably on subject of public interest. Correct
topical outline personally before the paper is written, showing how it
may be improved.


                             TWELFTH YEAR.

First Term.

=Special Work.=

Argumentation with involved problem of force and tact.

=Method.=

1. Study the general nature of argument, the use of exposition in
argument, the difference between inductive and deductive reasoning, the
difference between assertion and proof, attack and refutation. Be
practical and not technical in this work. Choose subjects calculated to
stimulate thought on topics of the day; draw as largely as possible from
school life in order to demonstrate the value of the work.

2. Emphasize the value of structure here as well as in pure exposition.

3. Practice in writing of speeches, in whole or in parts; openings,
refutations, conclusions, appeals to the feelings.

4. Show the value of appropriate style.

5. Vary the special work of the term by occasional papers on topics
suggested by the literature work, provided they are of live interest and
such as to provoke discussion.

Second Term.

=Special Work.=

1. Review of the different forms of writing taught throughout the
course, to test power and to unify impressions.

2. Four longer papers than heretofore, one of each kind of discourse.

3. Briefer exercises are needed.


                           ORAL COMPOSITION.

Definite practice in oral composition extends throughout the entire
course. At least once every five weeks each student talks to the class
on some subject previously prepared. Increase these exercises whenever
time will permit.

=General Directions.=

1. Have students stand before the class, free from desks or other
external support.

2. Subject matter should be prepared, but not memorized. Students may
use a small card with headings, but no other notes.

3. The length of the talk may vary from two to three minutes in the
Ninth Year, to five of six in succeeding terms, as ideas and ease
increase.

4. Material should be drawn from subjects outside the literature
lessons. Let the student’s interest determine the subject. Talks may be
reproductions of newspaper or magazine articles, of parts of books, or
accounts of personal experience, but the wording must be the student’s
own.

5. Teachers should emphasize constantly the same principles or order and
arrangement of ideas as in written work. The aim is not mere talk, but
effective speech.

6. Emphasize interest of the audience as a test of success. Try to
arouse an ambition to win this. Teach the gain to a speaker from erect,
free posture of the body, ease of manner, command of the audience with
the eye, clear enunciation, pleasant voice.

7. Criticism must be sympathetic and kindly, even when corrective. Above
all try to arouse ambition to succeed and the will to persevere.


                              NINTH YEAR.

Anecdotes, stories read, reports on topics connected with Greek life may
all be used. The talks may be varied by readings; for instance,
selections from Stephen Phillips’ “Ulysses,” read in parts; an act of
“Antigone,” or some other Greek play; poems illustrative of the work
being studied, or similar work bearing no relation to the literature
lessons. The aim is to develop ease and self possession in standing
before the class, and interest in trying to hold an audience.


                              TENTH YEAR.

=Material.=

Accounts of interesting things seen or done; descriptions of famous
events, places of men; accounts of anything of current interest. Try by
the search for live material to broaden the students’ interests and to
make them more generally intelligent. This may be helped by having
suitable subjects for talks submitted every week, even although time
will not permit practice in talking that often.


                             ELEVENTH YEAR.

=Material.=

Continue the work of the preceding year, with greater emphasis on
subjects of present interest. Seek to encourage intelligent reading of
newspapers by reports on current events. More frequent practice may be
obtained by sometimes combining the oral composition work of the second
term with the literature work. Reports on authors and works read outside
of class, literary pilgrimages to interesting places in America,
occasional readings may all be utilized.


                             TWELFTH YEAR.

=Material.=

Every Monday throughout the year have reports at the beginning of the
period, (1) on events of importance of the preceding week outside of the
United States; (2) in the United States outside of California; (3) in
California, especially local events of importance. Insist on
discriminating selection and judicious condensation. Have subjects of
importance expanded into special talks. Use also throughout the year
reports on topics suggested by the literature work.


                                HISTORY.

The work in this department has a two fold purpose, namely, training and
information. In the first place, the subject is taught with a view to
developing breadth of vision, judgment, and an understanding of cause
and effect in human affairs. Secondly, the aim is to enable the student
better to understand the conditions and problems of the present day by
knowing their historical connections. The work is conducted with the
constant realization that the highest use of history is to prepare young
people to discharge intelligently their many duties as citizens in a
democracy.

The courses in the department are as follows:

    =General History.= For 9th and 10th grade pupils.
    =Ancient History.= For 9th grade pupils.
    =Mediaeval and Modern History.= For 10th grade pupils.
    =English History.= For 11th grade pupils.
    =United States History and Civics.= For 12th grade pupils.
    =Economics.= For 11th and 12th grade pupils.


                            General History.

This course presents, in the simplest way, an outline of the history of
our civilization, from its origin to the present day. It aims to help
the pupil to understand the causes, geographical, racial, etc., that
have led to the rise and decline of nations, and to appreciate the
services that these peoples have rendered to mankind. Much attention is
given to the great characters of history. An especial effort is made to
know the origin and history of existing nations, and to realize that the
present is an outgrowth from the past. The course is useful also in
helping the pupil to grasp the time and place of the characters and
events that he meets in literature and science, and thus it supplies a
background for his other studies.


                            Ancient History.

The courses in Ancient History and in Medieval and Modern History
together cover the same ground as the course in General History, but do
so more thoroughly and with much greater detail. They are recommended to
those who expect to take at least three years of History in the high
school. The course in Ancient History covers the period from the dawn of
history to 800 A. D. It is designed to give the pupil some knowledge of
the origin of our civilization. After a short discussion of prehistoric
beginnings, a brief study is made of the ancient oriental peoples. The
major part of the course is devoted to the history and civilization of
Greece and Rome, with especial reference to their influence on the life
of the present day.


                      Medieval and Modern History.

The course in Medieval and Modern History covers the period from A. D.
800 to the present, and is a continuation of the course in Ancient
History. Its purpose is to trace the continued development of our modern
civilization, and to understand the origin and character of the nations
of today. Attention is devoted to economic and social conditions, as
well as to political events. Especial emphasis is placed upon the period
since Napoleon Bonaparte. A study is made of the governments of the
principal European nations, and contemporary problems are discussed in
the light of their history. Considerable use is made of current
newspapers and periodicals.


                            English History.

The fundamental principles of our American government, the idea of local
independence, of jury trial, of representation, are traced back to
English institutions; showing at the same time that these privileges are
the result of the persistent contest waged for over six hundred years,
which struggle, in fact, is still going on. The conditions in Scotland,
Ireland, Wales, and on the Continent of Europe are discussed in
connection with the constitutional development, and the economic,
political, social, and religious conditions in England. The British
Empire is studied in its relation to the other nations of the world, and
in the economic and political condition of its colonies and subjects.


                   United States History and Civics.

The study of the earliest period is planned to show that the work of
discovery and exploration has been going on for over four centuries and
is still in progress. Economic, political, and religious conditions in
Europe are discussed, and related to conditions in America. During the
colonial period the principles and the traits which characterized us now
as a nation were developed. The importance of the idea of local
independence maintained by the colonists against the idea of imperialism
held by England is discussed, and followed by a consideration of the
significant facts of the Revolution and the process by which the loose
confederation of states became the constitutional republic, tending
toward a vigorous national growth. The problems of transportation, the
removal of the Indians, the disposal of the public lands, the struggle
of free and of slave labor for the control of the territories, the Civil
War; these subjects and others related to them are treated, bearing in
mind that today the United States is no longer in isolation, but linked
to other nations. The study of the Constitution of the United States,
and of the actual workings of the city, state, and national governments,
is designed to bring out clearly that the citizen today has new duties
and new responsibilities; that the intelligent citizen should be
informed concerning the tariff, the trusts, the labor unions, equal
suffrage, the peace movement, and other current questions. The
Constitution of the State of California, and the Charter of the City of
Oakland are given special attention, and visits are made to the City
Council, the Board of Supervisors, the Courts, and the State
Legislature.


                               Economics.

Economics deals with the social activities and institutions that result
from men’s efforts to procure a livelihood. It studies the means by
which nations become rich, and the effects of riches upon the public
welfare. The policies of modern government have so much to do with
economics that an understanding of economic laws is essential to wise
citizenship. The aim of this course is to teach enough of accepted
economic theory to enable the student to understand the laws that govern
the larger economic questions of today. Mere abstract theories, however,
are avoided. A study is made of the evolution of industrial society and
the application of economic laws. Emphasis is laid upon the study of
consumption, i. e., the best expenditure of the personal and public
incomes, and on such dominant questions as Labor, Tariff, Monopolies,
Socialism, Taxation. The student is led to realize that as the
industrial and economic life of today is the outgrowth of past
tendencies, so the wise solution of present vexed economic questions
will determine the economic character of the decades to come. Moreover,
it is believed that the study of economics, while dealing with matters
of great practical importance, tends also to quicken the love of justice
and to encourage sanity and moderation of view concerning the value of
material wealth.


                              MATHEMATICS.


                              NINTH YEAR.


                          Elementary Algebra.

Mechanical skill and accuracy of expression in the formal language of
Mathematics are the things emphasized in the first year of Algebra. The
course is designed to cover sufficient ground so that the student who
studies Algebra for only one year will be able to handle the algebraic
processes involved in problems of computation in Geometry and to
manipulate formulae, in order that he may read intelligently the popular
publications on mechanics. To this end special attention is paid to
graphical methods of representation, to the solutions of simple
equations in which the unknown may be represented by any letter, and to
the solution of the quadratic equation, by the formula method as well as
by factoring. Stress is laid upon accuracy of expression, and upon the
knowledge of processes, that this elementary work may afford a proper
foundation for all future work in Mathematics. Factoring is taught by
means of type forms and rules, which the students are required to learn.

The following are the subjects considered: four fundamental operations,
linear equations, type product forms, factors, fractions, fractional
equations, ratio and proportion, quadratic equations, functionality,
simultaneous linear equations (graphical solution), simplification of
simple surds. The quadratic equation is used to develop the idea of a
variable and of a function of a variable, and to teach graphical methods
of solving equations. Stress is laid upon the practical application of
the graph to the solution of every day problems.


                              TENTH YEAR.


                            Plane Geometry.

Usual theorems and constructions, original exercises, problems of
computation.


                             ELEVENTH YEAR.


                           Algebraic Theory.

First Term.

The object of this course is to introduce the student to the Theory of
Mathematics; therefore the demonstration of principles is insisted upon.
A rigorous treatment of simple laws is required.

The course is designed to meet the needs of two classes of students:
those who are preparing for the Engineering Course at the University,
and those who, while they are not preparing for college, wish to do
advanced work in Mathematics and to acquire a broader knowledge of
Algebra than that obtained in the first year. It also prepares the
students for the Courses in Trigonometry and Solid Geometry that are to
follow.

For the benefit of those students who are not preparing for the
University and are not studying mathematics for its own sake, a special
effort is made to make the content of the course as rich as possible;
that is, to select topics that afford material for mathematical thinking
and at the same time have vocational value.

The following are the subjects considered: factors, remainder theorem,
factor theorem, fractions, fractional and negative indices, surds, and
complex quantities (graphic treatment), theory of quadratic equations,
graphs, simultaneous equations, proportion and variation, logarithms.

Second Term.

Either Solid Geometry or Trigonometry. These subjects are begun but once
a year. All students finishing two and a half years’ work in Mathematics
may take whichever course is offered in the second half of their third
year. Original work and solution of practical problems required.


                             TWELFTH YEAR.

First Term.

Either Solid Geometry or Trigonometry.

Second Term.

This course is a continuation of the work in Algebraic Theory designed
especially for engineering students and for others who wish to continue
advanced work. The student who is pursuing Mathematics for its
vocational value and who does not intend to go to the University need
not elect it, since the first term of Algebraic Theory, with Solid
Geometry and Trigonometry, will give him sufficient equipment. The
following topics are studied: synthetic division, simultaneous quadratic
equations, special methods for higher equations, determinants,
mathematical induction, binomial theorem, summation of series.


                                SCIENCE.

=Physical Geography.= Regularly a ninth year subject. Time: 7 or 8
periods per week.

First Term.

A study of land forms based on field excursions to points easily
accessible afoot or on the street cars. Soil formation and conservation.
A study of the physical features of California with their economic
consequences, particularly the determination of the routes of railroads,
the choice and construction of harbors, quartz and placer gold mining,
the development of water power and long-distance electric transmission,
lumbering, irrigation, agriculture, horticulture, etc. Tarr’s New
Physical Geography, pages 13–172, liberally supplemented by the use of
reference books, lantern slides, relief models and topographic maps.
Wright’s Manual of Physical Geography.

Second Term.

A study of the simpler elements of weather and climate based on
astronomic and other observations and on certain physical and chemical
experiments. A study of the great wind belts of the world and regions of
excessive, moderate, or deficient rainfall, locating each regionally in
the continents. The climatic regions of the United States with
particular reference to temperatures, prevailing winds, and
rainfall—each as modified by physiographic features and by large bodies
of water. A regional study of the United States with particular
reference to milling, stock feeding, dairying, slaughtering and packing,
iron, coal, lumber. Centers of manufacture with a consideration of
methods and lines of transportation both by land and sea, particularly
of the transcontinental lines which reach the Pacific Coast. Possible
changes on the Pacific Coast due to the opening of the Panama Canal.
Tarr’s New Physical Geography, pages 1–12 and 173–430, supplemented by
the use of reference books, individual full-mounted globes, wall maps,
weather maps, and excursions to the Chabot Observatory and the United
States Weather Bureau. Wright’s Manual of Physical Geography.

=Botany.= Regularly a tenth year subject; but may be taken in the ninth
year. Time: 8 periods per week, including double laboratory periods.
Laboratory and recitation periods are arranged to suit the topic under
consideration.

The text used in Bergen’s Essentials of Botany. In the main, the order
of topics as there given is followed. More experiments in plant
physiology are taken than are outlined in the text, and some time is
devoted to the study of oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, and carbon,
including the chemistry of combustion. About 24 weeks are devoted to the
study of seed plants, and 18 weeks to spore plants. Enough time is
devoted to the study of the classification of seed plants to enable a
pupil to use a key readily. An herbarium is not required; but the
necessary instruction is given, and the pupil is encouraged in the
preparation of one if he shows interest in this kind of work. In the
study of spore plants particular attention is given to bacteria, yeasts
and molds in their relation to household affairs.

=Zoology.= Regularly an eleventh year subject. Time: 7 or 8 periods per
week, including double laboratory periods. It is expected that only one
class will be organized in each year, this class to begin with the fall
term.

First Term.

Invertebrate zoology, with comparative study of typical forms, e. g.,
amoeba, paramoecium, sponge, hydra, sea-anaemone, starfish, earthworm,
shrimp, crab, etc. Special attention is given to beneficial and
injurious insects.

Second Term.

Vertebrate zoology, with comparative study of human anatomy and
physiology. Detailed laboratory study of the anatomy of the frog.

Text-books: Jordan, Kellogg and Heath’s =Animal Studies=, both terms;
Conn and Budington’s =Advanced Physiology=, second term.

=Physiology, Hygiene and Sanitation.= Regularly an eleventh year
subject. Time: 7 or 8 periods per week, including double laboratory
periods.

The course is intended to contribute as much as possible toward
healthful living. The study of structure and function is made the basis
of an intelligent appreciation of the principles of hygiene. The
conception of the body as a mechanism which requires new materials of
definite kinds to replace worn out parts, and which also requires a
constant supply of energy to enable it to do its work is made the basis
of the study of food materials and the principles of dietetics. The
course concludes with a study of the nature of infectious and contagious
diseases and the means by which they are communicated; and domestic and
public sanitation.

Text-books: Conn and Budington’s =Advanced Physiology= and Brown’s
=Physiology for the Laboratory=.

=Chemistry.= Regularly an eleventh year subject. Previous preparation
should include at least one-half year of algebra; but the chemistry may
be taken without it. Time: 7 or 8 periods per week, with double
laboratory periods.

General Chemistry. The subject essentially as presented in McPherson and
Henderson’s =Elementary Study of Chemistry= and =Laboratory Exercises in
Chemistry= by the same authors.

Household Chemistry. This is alternative with the general course in the
second half year. The work of the first half year is the same as in the
general course. The course in household chemistry is intended for girls,
and substitutes the chemical problems and processes of the home for
those of the mine, the smelter, and the metallurgical and chemical
industries in general. Large use is made of a reference library of works
in the chemistry of cooking, cleaning and sanitation. Blanchard’s
=Household Chemistry= is used as a laboratory guide.

The credit toward graduation and the college entrance credit is the same
for the household chemistry as for the general course.

=Physics.= Brief Course. Regularly a twelfth year subject. Minimum
preparation, 8 units, including first year algebra and the first term of
plane geometry. Time: One period daily for one year. Credit: One unit.

This course fulfils the requirements in science for admission to the
College of General Culture, the College of Commerce, and the General
Course in Agriculture of the University of California, and for similar
courses in other universities. It emphasizes the qualitative aspects of
phenomena, omits the more difficult mathematics of the subject, takes
fewer quantitative laboratory experiments and devotes less time to
practical applications than the full course does. Astronomical topics
are introduced here and there as they fit into the regular order of the
work.

Full Course. Regularly a twelfth year subject. Minimum preparation: 10
units, including first year algebra and plane geometry. Time: 3 single
periods and 2 double periods per week in the first half year; 2 single
periods and 3 double periods per week in the second half year. Credit:
One and one-half units.

The full course is prescribed in the fourth year for all pupils
preparing for the Colleges of Mechanics, Mining, Civil Engineering,
Chemistry, and the Technical Course in Agriculture of the University of
California, and for similar courses in other universities. It is
elective for all other pupils who have the necessary preparation.

The full and the brief courses are given in separate classes, in either
or both terms, when the number of students enrolled necessitates the
organization of more than one class in the work of the term. When the
classes are not thus divided, the pupils in the full course will take
the work with the brief course class 5 periods per week, and will take
additional work as a separate class 2 periods per week in the first
term, and 3 periods per week in the second term.

Text-books: Coleman’s =Text-book of Physics=, and Coleman’s =New
Laboratory Manual of Physics=.


             University Admission Requirements in Science.

The University of California requires for admission at least one science
given in the third or fourth year of the high school course. Physiology,
Zoology, Chemistry, or Physics fulfils this requirement; Botany does
not, but it receives regular admission credit as an elective subject.
When Botany is offered together with any one of the other sciences, both
receive admission credit, the one as an elective, the other as the
prescribed third or fourth year science.


                                 GREEK.


                              TENTH YEAR.

First Term.

        First Greek Book. White.

Second Term.

        First Greek Book. White.


                             ELEVENTH YEAR.

First Term.

        Xenophon’s Anabasis. Bks. I and II.
        Greek Grammar. Goodwin.
        Beginner’s Greek Composition. Collar & Daniell.

Second Term.

        Xenophon’s Anabasis. Bks. III and IV.
        Greek Grammar. Goodwin.
        Beginner’s Greek Composition. Collar & Daniell.


                             TWELFTH YEAR.

First Term.

        Homer’s Iliad. Bks. I-III.
        Goodwin’s Grammar.
        Composition. Collar & Daniell.

Second Term.

        Homer’s Iliad. Bks. IV-VI.
        Goodwin’s Grammar.
        Beginner’s Greek Composition. Collar & Daniell.


                                 LATIN.


                              NINTH YEAR.

First Term.

        =D’Ooge’s Latin for Beginners.=
        Lessons I-XLV.
        Gradatim for sight reading.

Second Term.

        =D’Ooge’s Latin for Beginners.=
        Lessons XLVI-LXXVIII. Book completed.
        Gradatim for sight reading.


                              TENTH YEAR.

First Term.

        =Second Year Latin. Greenough, D’Ooge and Daniell.=

        =Part One.= 75 pages of stories, fables, mythology, biography,
        including Life of Caesar. Composition based on the above.

        =Grammar.= Allen & Greenough.

Second Term.

        =Second Year Latin. Greenough, D’Ooge and Daniell.=

        =Part Two.= 100 pages from “=Caesar’s Gallic Wars=.” Bks. I-VII.

        D’Ooge’s Composition to accompany “Second Year Latin.”
        =Grammar.= Allen & Greenough.


                             ELEVENTH YEAR.

First Term.

        =Cicero.= Any Standard Edition.

        The Conspiracy of Catiline. Four orations for translation and
        study.

        =D’Ooge’s Composition.= Based on above orations.
        =Grammar.= Allen & Greenough.

Second Term.

        =Cicero= (continued).

        Pompey’s Military Command, The Citizenship of Archias (for
        translation and study).

        =D’Ooge’s Composition.= Based on the above oration.
        =Grammar.= Allen & Greenough.


                             TWELFTH YEAR.

First Term.

        =Virgil.= Any Standard Edition.

        Bks. 1–111. For translation and scansion. The Principles of
        Prosody—A study of figures of speech, grammatical and
        rhetorical.

        =D’Ooge’s Latin Composition=, “Senior Review.”
        Exercises 1–16.
        =Grammar.= Allen & Greenough.

Second Term.

        =Virgil= (continued).

        Bks. IV-VI for translation and scansion. Method of preceding
        term continued.

        =D’Ooge’s Latin Composition.= “Senior Review.”
        Exercises 17–34.
        =Grammar.= Allen & Greenough.


                                GERMAN.


                              NINTH YEAR.

First Term.

        Spanhoofd—Lehrbuch der deutschen Sprache. Lessons 1–13.
        Spanhoofd—Erstes Lesebuch.
        Copy Book—Deutsches Schönschreiben, No. 4.

Second Term.

        Spanhoofd—Lehrbuch. Lessons 14–19.
        Bacon—Im Vaterland, about fifty pages.
        Moni der Geissub, or
        Rosenresli.


                              TENTH YEAR.

First Term.

        Spanhoofd—Lehrbuch. Lessons 20–29.
        Bacon—Im Vaterland, pp. 50–157.
            Two or more of the following:

        Höher als die Kirche.
        Germelshausen.
        Immensee.
        Der Geissbub von Engelberg.
        Irrfahrten.

Second Term.

        Spanhoofd—Lehrbuch. Lessons 30–35, subjunctive.
        Wesselhoeft—German Composition, pp. 1–40.
            Three or more of the following:

        Der Schwiegersohn.
        Anfang und Ende.
        Der Bibliothekar.
        Der Prozess.
        Das Spielmannskind.


                             ELEVENTH YEAR.

        Der stumme Ratsherr (in same volume with Das Spielmannskind).
        Riehl.
        Auf der Sonnenseite. Bernhardt.
        Bilderbuch ohne Bilder. Anderson.
        Wilhelm Tell. Schiller.
        Aus dem deutschen Dichterwald. Dillard.
        L’Arrabbiata. Heyse.
        Burg Neideck. Riehl.
        Lichenstein. Hauff.
        Der arme Spielmann. Grillparzer.
        Peter Schlemihl. Chamisso.
        Maria Stuart. Schiller.
        Hermann und Dorothea. Goethe.
        Elements of German. Bierwirth.
        German Composition. Pope.
        Träumereien. Leander.


                             TWELFTH YEAR.

        Elements of German. Bierwirth.
        German Composition. Pope.
        Soll und Haben. Freytag.
        Das Nest der Zaunkönige. Freytag.
        Die Schriften des Waldschulmeisters. Rosegger.
        Er soll dein Herr sein. Heyse.
        Die Blinden. Heyse.
        St. Jurgen. Storm.
        Brigetta. Auerbach.
        Heimatklang. Werner.
        Der Neffe als Onkel. Schiller.
        Die Jungfrau von Orleans. Schiller.
        Die Journalisten. Freytag.
        Sesenheim. Goethe.
        Die verlorene Handschrift. Freytag.

Supplementary List. Not to be purchased by pupils.

        Easy German Stories. Ries.
        Neue Marchen. Mullar.
        Gluck Auf. Muller & Wenckebach.
        Das Murchen. Goethe.
        Der Geissbub von Engelberg. Lohmeyer.
        Geschichten von Rhein. Stern.
        Geschichten von den deutschen Städten. Stern.
        Minna von Barnhelm. Lessing.
        Nathan der Weise. Lessing.
        Aus dem Leben eines Taugenichts. Eichendorff.
        Leberecht Hühnchen. Seidel.
        Abenteuer der Neujahrsnacht. Zschokke.
        Das Wirtshaus zu Kransac. Zschokke.
        Unter Brudern. Heyse.
        Two German Tales. Nichols.
        Teya. Sudermann.
        Sommermarchen. Baumbach.
        Gravelotte. Frenssen.
        Tales. Hauff.
        Four German Comedies.
        Das Amulett. Meyer.
        Aprilwetter. Arnold.
        Die Harzreise. Heine.
        Das Habichtsfraulein. Baumbach.
        Ultimo. Moser.
        Fritz auf Ferien. Arnold.
        Der Assistent. Schanz.
        German Conversation. Wesselhoeft.
        Der Taucher. Schiller.
        Die beiden Freunde. Moltke.
        Stille Wasser. Bernhardt.
        Emilia Galotti. Lessing.
        Pole Poppenspaler. Storm.
        Kleider machen Leute. Keller.
        Zwischen den Schlachten. Elster.
        Aus dem Leben eines Unglücklichen. Hansjakob.
        Die Ahnen, Part I. Freytag.
        Ein Regentag auf dem Lande. Arnold.
        Krambambuli. Elmer-Eschenbach.
        Legenden. Keller.
        Die Steinklopfer. Saar.
        Ernstes und Heiteres. Schrakamp.


                                FRENCH.


                              NINTH YEAR.

First Term.

        French Grammar. Fraser & Squair. Lessons I-XX.
        French Reader. Aldrich & Foster.

Second Term.

        French Grammar. Fraser & Squair. Lessons XXI-XXX.
        French Reader. Aldrich & Foster.


                              TENTH YEAR.

First Term.

        French Grammar. Fraser & Squair. Lessons XXXI-XL, and pp.
        337–347.
        Le Voyage de Monsieur Perrichon, or equivalent from list.
        Tartarin de Tarascon.

Second Term.

        French Grammar. Fraser & Squair.
        Colomba.
        Two hundred pages of sight reading from supplementary list.
        Elementary French Composition. Lazare.


                             ELEVENTH YEAR.

        Grammar. Fraser & Squair.
        Extracts for French Composition. Mansion.
        Une Semaine A Paris. Bacon.
        Douze Contes Nouveaux.
        Le Petit Chose.
        Le Malade Imaginaire. Moliere.
        Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme.
        Les Miserables. Hugo.


                             TWELFTH YEAR.

        Grammar. Fraser & Squair.
        Extracts for French Composition. Mansion.
        Une Semaine A Paris. Bacon.
        Contes des Romanciers Naturalistes.
        Le Monde ou L’on s’Ennuie. Pailleron.
        Les Precieuses Ridicules. Moliere.
        Souvenirs d’Enfance et de Jeunesse.

Supplementary French Books. (Not to be purchased by pupils.)

        Le Conscrit de 1813. Erckmann-Chatrian.
        Notre Dame De Paris. Hugo.
        L’Abbe Daniel. Theuriet.
        L’Abbe Constantin. Halevy.
        L’Avare. Moliere.
        French Short Stories. Buffum.
        Bataille de Dames. Scribe & Legouve.
        Le Roi des Montagnes. About.
        La Tulipe Noire. Dumas.
        Les Trois Mousquetaires. Dumas.
        La Mare au Diable. Sand.
        L’Etre de la Saint Martin. Meilhac & Halevy.
        Labiche’s La Lettre Chargee.
        Vent d’Ouest. d’Hervilly.
        Les Prisonniers du Caucase. De Maistre.
        Les Plus Jolis Contes de Fees. Lazare.
        Morceaux Choisis. Daudet.
        Selections from Standard French Authors. Guerlac.
        L’Etincelle. Pailleron.
        Eugenie Grandet. Balzac.
        Cure de Tours. Balzac.
        Ma Soeur Henriette. Renan.
        Dosia. Greville.
        Madame Therese. Erckmann-Chatrian.
        Contes Extraits de Myrrhae. Lamaitre.
        Siege de Paris. Sarcey.
        Gil Blas. Le Sage.


                                 MUSIC.


                               Course I.

Elementary Choral. Sight-singing, notation, musical dictation, voice
training and part singing. Voices will be tested and classified at the
beginning of each term. One credit for graduation, but no recommendation
to the university.


                               Course II.

Advanced Choral and Musical Appreciation. Open to all students who have
completed course I or its equivalent. University credit.

Musical dictation, study of standard choruses, biography of great
musicians. This course will be illustrated by the Victor and
player-piano and frequent recitals by available musicians and music
students.


                              Course III.

Harmony. Students electing the course must have completed Course I or
II, or be reasonably proficient in performance upon some solo
instrument. University credit.

Notation. Formation of diatonic and chromatic scales in major and minor
modes; consonant and dissonant intervals and their inversions; triads
and their inversions in major and minor modes; a study of chord
connection and voice leading over a given bass; chords of the Dominant
Seventh and their inversions and resolution; harmonizing of simple
melodies; treatment and progressions of Secondary Sub-dominant chords;
modulation and transposition; suspensions, retardations and
embellishments; chords of the Dominant Ninth and secondary chords of the
Seventh from the Dominant Ninth.


                               Course IV.

History of Music. University credit.

An outline of the development of the art of music, including ancient
music; Greek scales; church music from the time of Gregory; the
Netherland School of Polyphony; opera and oratorio; the classical
period; the Romantic Movement; music of the present day; biographies of
the leading musicians of each period. Text—Outline of Music
History—Hamilton.


                               Course V.

Composition. Open to students who have completed Course III.


                               Course VI.

Orchestra. One credit for graduation but not for University.

Open to students sufficiently proficient on piano, violin, viola,
’cello, bass, cornet, clarinet, flute, or drum and traps, in so far as
balance of tone color will allow.


                                DRAWING.

=Freehand Drawing=—Given in Ninth Year.

Principles of perspective drawing from type solids, casts, still life
and plant forms in pencil, charcoal, pen and ink and water colors.

=Designing=—Given in Tenth Year.

Its principles and application. Lettering. Study of Historic Ornament.

=Geometric Drawing=—Given in Tenth or Eleventh Year.

Practice with mechanical drawing instruments, in the solution of
Geometric Problems, with the study of freehand and mechanical printing.

=Advanced Freehand Drawing=—Given in the Eleventh Year.

Advanced charcoal and water color from casts, life, fruit, flowers, and
landscape, and illustrative drawing.

=Applied Mechanical Drawing=—Given in Twelfth Year.

Selections made to suit the students’ needs.

=Industrial Arts=—Given in Twelfth Year.

Work selected to suit the students’ needs.


                          PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

1. One year of gymnasium work taken twice a week is required of all high
school students. No unit credit is given for this alone. Athletic work,
however, is taken throughout the four years, the equivalent of two
periods a week—part gymnasium and part outdoor work—for which one unit
is given towards graduation. For the first semester of the tenth year, a
compulsory course in Hygiene is substituted for active work in the
physical education department. A yearly medical and physical examination
is required.

2. After the first term, if the work is deferred for a year or more, the
first term must be repeated; for the required year’s work is to be
continuous.

3. Girls’ Department—Gymnasium work consists of breathing exercises,
free work, dumb bells, wands, Indian clubs, chest weights, mat work,
folk dancing, and marching, with special emphasis laid on graceful
carriage. Out door athletics—baseball, basket ball, volley ball, tennis,
and playground games.

4. The regulation costume for girls’ class work consists of:

                       Middy Blouse  .95 to 2.50
                           and
                       Bloomers     $2.50 and up
                       Gym. Shoes    .65 to 1.50

The course in hygiene for girls covers personal hygiene, including all
the normal functions of the body—care of the infant and house; care of
the sick; public sanitation, such as prevention of infectious diseases,
garbage and sewage disposal; care of food in the home and supervision of
dairies and markets, and federal activities in control of public health.

A medical examination is made of every freshman girl during her first
term and is repeated as often after that as may seem necessary. In
addition the physician is ready for consultation with pupils or their
parents or teachers whenever desired.

5. Boys’ Work—Gymnasium work for boys consists of dumb bells and wand
drill, Indian clubs, chest weights, breathing exercises, free hand and
floor work. Special attention is paid to proper carriage. For advanced
students, horse, parallel bars, horizontal bar and mat work. Out door
athletics may be taken but is not compulsory. They consist of track,
football, baseball, tennis, basketball, and swimming.

6. The regulation costume for the boys’ class work consists of:

                       Gymn. upper   .50
                       Running pants .50
                       Supporter     .75
                       Tennis shoes  .70 to $1.50

[Illustration: PRESS _of_ CARRUTH & CARRUTH OAKLAND]

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. Silently corrected typographical errors and variations in spelling.
 2. Archaic, non-standard, and uncertain spellings retained as printed.
 3. Enclosed bold font in =equals=.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Course of Study of the Oakland High
School, by Oakland High School

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COURSE OF STUDY--OAKLAND HIGH SCHOOL ***

***** This file should be named 63450-0.txt or 63450-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/4/5/63450/

Produced by Richard Tonsing, Tim Lindell, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

